cornish hens for thanksgiving: the current thing that works is inserting a thermometer into the thickest part of the thigh and taking all chickens out when the temp reaches 165 F. in 2018 you made 7 cornish hens. The thigh meat will be perfectly done but the breast meat will be so sad. find a way to fix this without ruining aesthetics.

fried fish:
cut fish into serving size portions. sprinkle fish all over with salt, cayenne pepper, garlic powder, pepper. coat fish with flour, then milk, then breadcrumbs. be generous with all coatings. completely dry, completely wet, completely dry. fry at 350 in 1/2 inch of oil for 2 min per side, a little over for steaks 3/4 to 1 inch thick, a little under for 1/2 or thinner.

vichyssoise: use yellow potatoes. ratio nearly 1/1 potatoes and leeks, with potatoes winning out. when i say white part of the leek i MEAN IT. good to make on sunday and eat on thursday. it really does not take a lot to whet your appetite; a full bowl will make you overly full, quite frankly. The chives can be mixed right into the soup once it's cold if you're only serving yourself. Don’t strain, because the last time you strained it was the consistency of warm ejaculate. 

roasted chicken: (babish)
spatchcock chicken. dry out in fridge overnight by putting it on top of a rack on top of a tray. You can pour salt over the whole deal if it’s kosher salt and if you have a brush for getting it off the next day. Otherwise just a light sprinkling is fine - as long as you keep it on the top shelf of the fridge it won’t spoil and will be safe. the day of cooking, take chicken out of the fridge about 3 hours before you want to eat it and just let it sit there. when you’re ready to bake, if you really buried it in salt now’s the time to brush it all off. otherwise, prepare a butter rub: butter, salt and pepper, and all the herbs that make sense to you: cilantro and scallions make sense to me. I suspect that lard or schmaltz can work in place of butter. make a space between chicken skin and chicken meat, like a giant pocket, and just slather as much butter rub in there as you can. roast at 450 for 45 min. gremolata: cilantro, garlic, lemon, salt, pepper, olive oil. don’t skip making the gremolata!! the acidity it provides is wholly necessary here. 

cauliflower salad: (a good substitute for potato salad)
microwave cauliflower florets for 3-4 minutes with no water - they’ll soften up on their own. keep in potato salad sized chunks (about 1 inch cubes and mix with a scant to moderate amount of mayo and mustard - be careful because the cauliflower has no starch so you don’t need a lot of mayo at all to get a creamy texture. too much can mix with the cauliflower’s moisture and turn the whole salad into a soupy mess. snip in a generous amount of chives and season with a generous amount of salt and pepper. whole grain/lots of dijon is good here, but the salt carries away all the blandness quite nicely. 

swedish meatballs:
small dice one small onion and sweat in a pan. mix the onion in a bowl with 1 lb ground beef and 1 lb of ground pork. pinch of allspice, pinch of cumin, two eggs, and half a cup of fine breadcrumbs. generously salt and pepper. roll into tiny tiny meatballs. fry all in same pan you did the onions in. make sure to not cook all the way - you just want a deep brown black crust on two sides. make gravy: 1 knob of butter in the used pan, and requisite amount of flour. add a good amount of beef stock, until the sauce is almost too runny. add milk for color. season sauce to taste with salt and pepper, and throw in all the cooked meatballs. simmer all until meatballs are just cooked. MUST serve with lingonberry jam and some sort of white mash. for keto, cauliflower salad above is nice as white mash substitute. 

pie crust: (nyt)
1 1/4 cup flour
pinch of salt
10 tbsp UNSALTED butter, sliced as thinly as possible off the stick. GOOD BUTTER! You can tell when crappy butter is used by the lack of pungent butter-smell in the final pastry. 
three handfuls or so of water
cut butter into flour + salt with knuckles and then fingers. remember to smell the amazing buttery flour. cup 1 hand under cold tap and splash about three of those cupped hands into the bowl (each cupped hand is like 1 tbsp because I have tiny hands. stir very lightly with fingers. two more cupped handfuls, stir with fingers, and dump onto sheet of parchment paper. use parchment paper to guide the mixture into a flat ball. fold parchment paper around the ball and refrigerate for like 30 minutes while making filling. I can’t work with completely cold crust, i like crust that’s about as cold as a hand inside a jacket sleeve on a winter day. a little hardness around the edges is okay, knead once or twice when the dough comes out of the fridge and that will be gone. don’t be afraid to knead a little to get the dough to the shape you want. shape > flakiness. at worst it’ll be crumbly which is still very good. with the amount of butter in this recipe and the method you put it in you’ll be able to get flakiness though. roll out and put into pie pan. fold edges of crust under to make everything uniform, then crimp. bake at 375 for like 45 minutes with some pie weights or the like. done when the center is not raw. 

apple pie that I have worked on for 2 years and that I now think can hold its own at a county fair: (thanks Grandma Ople!)
1/2 cup white sugar
1/2 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup butter, or one stick I think
3 tbsp flour
1/4 cup water
enough apples when cut into 1/4 inch slices to fill a pie pan. mound the apples. MACINTOSH APPLES ONLY, because of the perfect combination between tartness and sweetness. Freshness of apples does not matter. Fresh is best of course, but even a mealy and old macintosh apple is indistinguishable when baked. 
mix dough for two of the above crusts. blind bake one, but really bake it all the way through. Remember to butter the parchment paper before filling with pie weights because the middle of the crust usually flakes off a bit if you don’t, and we want full structural integrity in this pie when we’re done. Make sure the middle is cooked. Let cool for a while, and make caramel, which is all the ingredients above. butter first. when melted, stir in flour to make a paste. then add water and both sugars, and bring to a rolling boil to finish. if the butter separates from the sugar after the mixture is brought to boil, you did it WRONG and you need to do it again. Separation can be avoided by having all ingredients measured out and ready to go; also, don’t bring the butter to a boil before adding flour - add flour as soon as butter is melted. no matter what happens, it has to be runny to pour evenly! once crust has cooled, fill with apples. Don’t get greedy and overfill! Apple to crust ratio must remain 1 to 1! if you like, sprinkle cinnamon over apples after filling. roll out other crust and make lattice over top, making sure that lattice edges don’t touch blind baked crust. pour all of the caramel on top of the whole pie, getting into all the nooks and crannies evenly, and making sure the lattice top gets a good coating as well. make sure to pour some caramel around the edges of the pie between the lattice and the blind baked crust to hold it together; we don’t want the whole lattice coming off. Bake at 425 F for 15 min, then reduce temp to 350 and bake for 45 more minutes. LET COOL. Once cool, you should ideally be able to remove the whole pie to a cake stand. Structural integrity is king. 

keto meatballs that are as good as regular ones
1 lb ground beef, 1 lb ground veal, 1 lb ground pork
italian parsley. don't skimp/skip this
like 4 freaking cloves of garlic. don't be afraid to be generous. chop very finely. 
buy one large white onion and grate as much of it as possible before your hands get tired. I’d say about a cup or a cup and a half. 
about a cup and a half or even more of parmesan cheese
three eggs
about 1/3 cup of heavy cream
generous salt and pepper.
mix all ingredients with hands. use cookie scoop to scoop into balls, then roll into better balls. 
brown in a generous amount of olive oil in a cast iron pot. do NOT crowd.
makes about 27. serves 6. Everybody gets like 4-5. 

next time you make mississippi roast take out the stems from the pepperoncinis and do not include the brine, or include very little of it. put in more ranch. even generous is not enough - really drench the roast.

milo's stupid recipe for stupid mashed potatoes. it's the best thing he makes
doesn't matter which kind of potato, although i have a suspicion that yukon gold works best
wash each potato very well because you're going to keep the skins
wrap each potato in aluminum foil and roast them until they're cooked. who knows for how long this is. check after 45 minutes at 400 deg i'd say.
start out with a stick of butter and cook a bunch of rosemary and garlic in it. probably a shit ton of garlic. leave some in there the whole way to cook fully and take some out for extra bite. fish the rosemary out after it wilts a bit.
put the potatoes and all the garlic through a food mill. 
put butter in the potatoes until smooth. 
salt and pepper. chop and stir in the rosemary.
if it's good, thank milo. if not, whine at milo.

salad:
poppy seeds
romaine
thinly sliced white onion
strawberries
old world style dressing (red/white wine vinegar, olive oil, mustard)
almond slivers
mild blue cheese like gorgonzola

smoothie:
frozen berries
honey
water/seltzer
find way to keep ingredients from separating. is separation even bad?
not bad for blender bottle, quite bad for a cup
need a thickener. yogurt. this mix will keep for a couple days in the fridge.

steak and rosemary potatoes and creamed spinach

sandwich:
proscuitto
balsamic
olive oil
good bread
basil
tomato
mozzarella

chicken salad:
mayo
green onion
sriracha
nori
wakame if possible

tips:
if you're using frozen riced cauliflower as rice, usually you can just put it straight into whatever you're cooking and you'll get that nice bite, and no mushiness

summer roommate hunger friend soup:
2 cups chicken broth
1 smallest jar of rao's marinara sauce                                                       
2 cloves garlic chopped
2 green peppers small dice
2 zucchini (one green one yellow) small dice
3 whole foods hot pork sausage, taken out of casing
butter
olive oil
pepper
fry sausage with 1 tbsp butter until cooked, remove
fry peppers, zucchini, and garlic in 1tbsp butter until reduced and cooked
add chicken broth to pot, then sausage, then marinara, then a shit ton of pepper.
let whole thing come to a boil, then shut off. the pot should have a light broth but be chunky
top each bowl with a good amt of olive oil

ugly bastard chicken soup: (a study on schmaltz)
make a traditional chicken stock. mire poix, a whole rotisserie chicken carcass, picked. throw all the skin in there too. after like an hour or so strain it all out, keep all the fat in the soup. chop all the picked rotisserie chicken and put in in. a fair amount of fish sauce but not too much bc will salt from seaweed later. fresh pasta noodles at the last minute. tear as much dried fried seaweed as possible into each bowl. lots of pepper. 

steak and blue cheese salad: literally ripped from bailey and sage
grill a cheap but nice steak til like medium. maybe a skirt steak? cut it up into pleasant chunks. spring mix, crispy fried onions, small chunks of tomatoes, crumbled gorgonzola, commercial non organic blue cheese dressing. make it almost disgustingly creamy. 

ga kho gung:
use a pot with high sides it's worth it. chicken thighs skin off. if you get skin on then separate skin and thighs and render fat from skin separately. either way get yourself some schmaltz. pour the schmaltz into a holder or something while you do the chicken. all chicken thighs in bowl. knob of ginger into tiny matchsticks in bowl. like a shallot or two as well as garlic also in bowl. get like a couple tbsp of sugar (don't skimp) and put in pan by itself. melt over high heat and watch it because by god it can get ugly fast. turn off heat when black coffee colored and dump in whole bowl of chicken right away. stir carefully, watching for splattering and for if it's too dry. pour some water in if it is. turn heat back onto medium and turn chicken every now and then until cooked. Sometime during this period add back the schmaltz and some fish sauce. 

thit kho trung:
by thit we mean pork. pork belly or pork hocks, less fat, more meat. if too much fat take off some. take off skin bc it's tough and we don't really care about having some still on. but do leave an average amount of fat don't be draconian you need it. cut pork into mouth chunks and also finely chop some shallots and garlic. put all this in a single bowl. boil a proportional amount of eggs and peel. should have like one or two eggs per person. use a pot with high sides, put a couple of tbsp of sugar in pot (be generous) and wait for it to melt and be CAREFUL it will burn your house down so fast so watch it carefully. color of black coffee pour in whole bowl of meat and stir carefully bc it will splatter. once it's all kinda brown and coated with sugar if it looks a little dry put in some coconut soda if you have it or just water if you don't. it's basically a braise at this point so after its cooked it's basically up to you what mouthfeel you want. put in some fish sauce and the eggs and turn the eggs occasionally to get them brown on all sides. reduce the water down to a sauce. the sauce probably won't get very thick but you want it thin anyway to pour over rice. 

ca salmon kho with ca chua and dua
get the fattiest salmon fillets you can. belly? smallish dice tomatoes and pineapple. finely chop shallots and garlic. it's okay if pineapple is frozen, but it's not okay if it's canned. fresh tomatoes though. cut salmon into individual portions. do sugar thing and sear salmon in it. in an effort to keep salmon kinda raw take it out right away after, and put in tomatoes and pineapple, shallots and garlic at the same time. get the water out and get all of it soft. put the salmon back in and add water depending if there's some. Add fish sauce. baste it occasionally until it's just cooked. there is nothing sadder than overcooked fish. 

baby's first salad: the first salad that I ever invented
spring mix
sundried tomatoes in oil
artichoke hearts in oil
pecorino romano
chop/grate everything and mix. if too dry add extra oil from sundried tomato jar.

braising is not the same as kho. The sugar you melted to make the caramel sauce is delicate and if you heat it for too long or for too high a temperature it will still candy and burn despite the presence of your braising liquid. Use a guaranteed soft meat for kho. after the initial searing do NOT stay on high temperature.